## Team Reflection

Prior to the initial meeting, members of the team worked individually to understand the project brief and familiarise themselves with the requirements.

In the initial meeting during the Monday lab of week 3, we discussed what work was to be completed, and delegated tasks evenly among members. The tests were broken down into different 'groups' - auth_*, channel_*, message_*, user_*, standup_*, and miscellaneous. The more experienced programmers (Mitch and James) took on the larger 'groups', but overall the testing was spread out quite evenly among each member. During this meeting, the GitLab branch/file structure was also discussed, so that it would be easier to minimise merge conflicts and for team members to navigate each other's work. This distribution of tasks prior to working allowed our workflow to be smooth and fast, since it utilised each member’s strengths and minimised the time taken in asking questions about their delegated sections.

The team definitely needed to improve on communication. For the first week the project was released, there was a definite lack of communication among team members, and work towards the project was very minimal as tasks had not been delegated. However, this has been improving since the week 3 meeting, and communication has been more consistent in terms of updating the team about what work has been completed, and what tasks still need to be done. We have discussed methods to ensure we are updated on each other’s progress during the course of the project such as scheduling weekly group meetings in addition to the Monday tutorial. We plan to try using standups and the taskboard feature provided in the Gitlab during our next iteration and will assess how effective it is for tracking the team’s progress.

There were not any conflicts thus far within the group, and any issues and questions that were raised were dealt with swiftly and constructively over Facebook messenger.

Looking forward to future iterations, our team will ensure that a greater focus is placed on improving team communication. Despite being able to complete the iteration 1 to all our team members’ satisfaction, we recognised the need for more effective and time-efficient communication required for the implementation of functions. Delegation of tasks according to member strengths proved to be effective during iteration 1 and the team agreed to use this process again with this section too. Overall, while our team may have encountered some setbacks during early stages of team formation, we are all satisfied with how the team works together and the quality of work produced.
